---
permalink: /agency-service-reps/announcements/2007-09-21-u/
---

The Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (FRTIB) has issued final regulations to reflect enhanced security measures, including its use of account numbers in place of Social Security numbers as the primary way of identifying participants' TSP accounts. You can find these regulations on the [FRTIB Web site](https://www.frtib.gov/).

The Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board has issued final regulations (1) to clarify that the procedures applicable to an employee who was misclassified as either CSRS or FERS also apply to an employee who elects retroactive non-appropriated fund (NAF) retirement coverage; (2) to allow a non-spouse beneficiary to transfer a death benefit payment to an inherited IRA as authorized by the Pension Protection Act of 2006; (3) to clarify that a bankruptcy court now lacks jurisdiction over a TSP loan; and (4) to address other administrative matters.

As a result of the account number announcement mailing, we are receiving calls from participants who would like to update their addresses. Please remind your service members that active participants must change their addresses through their service. We are referring these participants back to their service and reminding them that some of the services have self-service benefits systems (i.e., myPay) which will allow them to change their addresses quickly and easily.

For added security, the TSP now requires that members of the uniformed services enter a longer and more complex when they log into Account Access. If they already had a TSP account when the new Web passwords went into effect, they will be prompted to either create their own password or request a computer-generated password. New TSP participants will receive their Web passwords in the mail after the TSP receives their first contribution. Passwords will not work with the ThriftLine. To access their account by telephone via the ThriftLine, members of the uniformed services will continue to use their TSP Personal Identification Number (PIN).

We are updating all of the publications with the new Web password information. These are being posted on this Web site and you will receive the new versions when you order the publications.

A new chart, "Uniformed Services Elective Deferral, Section 415(c) and Catch-Up Contribution Limits for 2002-2007," is now available under Historical Information. To review the chart, click here.

The leaflet "You're here for us today...We'll be there for you tomorrow" explains the advantages of contributing to the TSP to members of the uniformed services who are serving our country. To review the leaflet, please click here.

The Agency is announcing the transition of its agency technical services and death benefits and legal processing activities from the National Finance Center in New Orleans, LA, to SI International, Inc. in Fair Oaks, VA. Please see TSP Bulletins 06-2 (Civilian) and 06-U-3 (Uniformed Services) for more information. In addition, we have updated this Web site and the contact information in the affected booklets and forms (e.g., the Court Order Booklet; Forms TSP-17 and TSP-U-17, Information Relating to Deceased Participant. The updated materials will also be available through the normal TSP distribution channels.

L Funds Agency and Service Training Materials - The TSP has developed a DVD for agencies and services containing training materials that they can use in introducing the Lifecycle (L) Funds to their employees and service members. Representatives wishing to order a training package should click here for the order form. Complete the form and fax it to the Education and Training staff at (202) 942-1451.
