---
permalink: /agency-service-reps/announcements/2008-03-10/
---

The Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board has issued a proposed regulation that would limit the number of interfund transfer requests to two per month. Under the proposed regulation, after a participant has made two interfund transfers in a calendar month, the participant may make additional interfund transfers only into the G Fund until the first day of the next calendar month.

As a point of clarification, the January 7th interim regulation provided for an immediate, short-term procedure to curb frequent trading (see link below). This proposed regulation provides for a broader, system-wide solution.

For more information about frequent trading, see the Questions and Answers on the TSP Web site Home page.

**Annual Participant Statements**. The mailing of the new annual participant statements will begin shortly; we expect that it will continue through the end of February since we are sending 4.1 million statements. As announced in the October 2007 and January/February 2008 Highlights, the statements will provide participants with a summary of the 2007 activity in their TSP accounts as well as a number of new features including their personal rates of return, the amount of their life time contributions, and their beneficiaries of record. A copy of the leaflet, How To Read Your Annual Participant Statement, will be enclosed with the mailing to assist participants in understanding the new statements. Also, a set of Questions and Answers will be posted on the TSP home page next week which will supplement the leaflet.

Because this is a new service, we anticipate a lot of interest in the statements - particularly from participants who may not have been keeping up with their online quarterly statements. We also expect that you will get questions from participants who want to update their beneficiary information. Please remind your participants that the Designation of Beneficiary forms must be sent to the TSP; they should not be given to the agency personnel or finance offices. The latest versions of the Designation of Beneficiary forms (civilian and uniformed services) are available in Forms and Publications.

The mailing will also include a letter from the Executive Director reviewing last year's TSP activities and discussing upcoming events as well as a copy of the January/February 2008 Highlights.

**Roth IRA Transfers**. The new option permitting eligible participants to transfer their TSP accounts to a Roth IRA, as well as to a traditional IRA or other eligible employer plan (like a 401(k) plan) is coming soon (probably the week of the 11th). We are posting a set of Questions and Answers on the TSP home page describing the new Roth IRA transfer, its eligibility requirements, and other information about the option. The versions of the forms, tax notices, etc., incorporating the Roth IRA transfer option will be updated in Forms and Publications and we will begin shipping them as we fill agency and service requests for materials. Remember, this option is for transfers out of the TSP. Participants cannot transfer Roth IRA funds into the TSP.
