---
permalink: /agency-service-reps/announcements/2012-11-21/
---

We have made temporary changes to the financial hardship withdrawal rules for participants affected by Hurricane Sandy. These changes allow participants who were affected by Hurricane Sandy or who had a family member affected by Hurricane Sandy to take a hardship withdrawal and to continue making TSP contributions in the 6-month period after the hardship withdrawal.

As of November 21, 2012, we will treat any Financial Hardship In-Service Withdrawal Request (Form TSP-76) as a qualifying hardship provided the participant meets all of the following criteria:

1. Participant's primary residence or place of employment must be located in a [covered disaster area]({{ site.baseulr }}(/exit/?idx=28)), and he or she must have incurred a loss as a result of Hurricane Sandy.

OR

Participant's hardship withdrawal request will be used to assist an [eligible family member]({{ site.baseulr }}(/exit/?idx=29) who lives or works in a covered disaster area and who incurred a loss as a result of Hurricane Sandy.
2. In addition, all of the following requirements must also be met:  
- Participant must be actively employed with the Federal Government.
- Participant must write "Hurricane Sandy" on the top of page 1 of Form TSP-76.
- Participant must check the "Personal Casualty" box on page 2 of the request form, as the reason for requesting financial hardship.
- Participant request must be received by January 25, 2013 and the distribution must occur before February 1, 2013.

We will waive the rule prohibiting employee contributions for 6 months after taking a hardship withdrawal. **If a participant wants to stop TSP contributions**, he or she must complete Form [TSP-1]({{ site.baseurl }}/forms/tsp-1.pdf), Election Form or use the applicable automated system.

The previously described rule changes are not retroactive and all other Form TSP-76 rules apply.
