---
permalink: /agency-service-reps/announcements/2012-05-07/
---

The Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board has implemented the Roth TSP feature effective May 7, 2012, as authorized by the Thrift Savings Plan Enhancement Act of 2009, Public Law 111-31. As a result the Election Forms (regular and catch-up contributions) were modified to allow for both traditional and Roth contributions. Agencies that are currently unable to submit Roth contributions to the TSP must inform their employees to leave the dollar and percentage amount in the Roth contribution columns blank until the agency notifies its employees that they is ready to begin accepting Roth contributions. All in-service and post-separation withdrawal forms have been changed to accommodate withdrawing both traditional and Roth balances. They have also been consolidated for use by both civilian and uniformed service participants. Bulletins highlighting the changes and new requirements for contribution elections, in-service withdrawals, and post-separation withdrawals are available on the TSP website under the [Agency Rep Bulletins]({{ site.baseurl }}/agency-service-reps/bulletins/) section. All contribution election forms and withdrawal forms with dates prior to April 2012 are now obsolete and must be immediately discarded (recycled). These forms will not be processed by the TSP after June 1, 2012. The TSP has also updated the majority of the [publications]({{ site.baseurl }}/forms/) effected by the Roth TSP and they are now available on the TSP website. Agencies can order these publications through their distribution channels. TSP [Bulletin 12-18]({{ site.baseurl }}/bulletins/12-18.pdf), Participation in the Thrift Savings Plan, incorporates the changes in eligibility and participation that are provided in Public Law 111-31, to include agency responsibilities when participants elect to contribute to the Roth TSP.
