---
permalink: /agency-service-reps/announcements/2012-05-25/
---

In July of 2011, a computer belonging to Serco, a third party service provider used in support of the TSP, was subjected to a sophisticated hacking incident resulting in unauthorized access to the personal information of 123,201 TSP participants and payees. In April of 2012, the FRTIB and Serco were informed of the unauthorized access incident by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). When the FRTIB learned of the cyber attack, we took immediate steps to investigate and notify our participants and other affected individuals.

The FRTIB is mailing notifications letters to everyone whose personal information was in the affected files. The notice contains information about signing up for credit monitoring services as well as other steps that can be taken to protect personal information.

The FRTIB has issued a [press release](https://www.frtib.gov/ReadingRoom/PressRel/PR_2012-05-25_CyberAttackonContractor.pdf){:.pdf}{:.target="\_blank"}{:rel="nofollow"} and has published a list of frequently asked questions (FAQs) containing more detailed information about this incident.

<ul class="usa-accordion">
<li>
<button
class="usa-accordion-button"
aria-expanded="true"
aria-controls="a1">
What happened?
</button>
<div id="a1" class="usa-accordion-content">
In April 2012, the FRTIB and Serco, a third party service provider used in support of the TSP, were informed of an unauthorized access incident by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.  We were informed that in July of 2011, a computer belonging to Serco was subjected to a sophisticated hacking incident resulting in unauthorized access to the personal information of approximately 123,201 TSP participants and payees.
</div>
</li>
<li>
<button
class="usa-accordion-button"
aria-expanded="false"
aria-controls="a2">
What personal information was accessed?
</button>
<div id="a2" class="usa-accordion-content" markdown="1">
Several files with different combinations of data of approximately 123,201 individuals were accessed.

The names, addresses, and Social Security numbers of roughly 43,000 individuals were in the accessed files.  In some cases, this group of data also included financial account numbers and routing numbers.

Another group of roughly 80,000 had their Social Security numbers and some TSP-related information accessed, but their name was not associated with this information.
</div>
</li>
<li>
<button
class="usa-accordion-button"
aria-expanded="false"
aria-controls="a3">
What has TSP done in response to the cyber attack?
</button>
<div id="a3" class="usa-accordion-content">
First, on May 25th, we sent notification letters to everyone whose personal information was in the affected files.  The FRTIB and our service provider have been working to avoid future incidents. Steps taken include an immediate shutdown of the compromised computer, a response team that is conducting a systemwide review of all computer security procedures, and further enhanced computer security.
</div>
</li>
<li>
<button
class="usa-accordion-button"
aria-expanded="false"
aria-controls="a4">
Is there any evidence that this data is being used inappropriately?
</button>
<div id="a4" class="usa-accordion-content">
The TSP does not have any evidence that any personal information has been used or is being misused or disclosed to other persons.
</div>
</li>
<li>
<button
class="usa-accordion-button"
aria-expanded="false"
aria-controls="a5">
How will I know if my personal information was used inappropriately?
</button>
<div id="a5" class="usa-accordion-content">
We have no reason to believe that the data has been misused. Further, we have notified all individuals whose personal information was affected. We have engaged Kroll Inc., a risk consulting company, to provide its ID TheftSmart™ service for one year to the affected individuals. Among other features, this service offers credit consultation and continuous credit monitoring throughout the length of the service. We also have suggested steps that affected individuals can take to protect themselves. For additional information about identity theft, visit the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) website at http://www.ftc.gov/idtheft.
</div>
</li>
<li>
<button
class="usa-accordion-button"
aria-expanded="false"
aria-controls="a6">
I received a letter from the TSP offering credit monitoring services (ID TheftSmart™). Is it legitimate?
</button>
<div id="a6" class="usa-accordion-content" markdown="1">
Yes. The TSP mailed out letters to all affected participants offering them free credit monitoring service for one year as an additional safeguard against identity theft. The ID TheftSmart™ service is administered through Kroll, Inc., a risk consulting company.

In addition to providing instructions for enrolling in ID TheftSmart™ online or by telephone, we also provided a separate, paper enrollment form for the benefit of those participants who lack internet access or prefer to enroll by mail. The authorization form asks for personal information as a condition of enrollment. This is a necessary precaution and the request is legitimate. Nevertheless, the TSP strongly encourages participants to register for the service online if possible, where all personal information will be transmitted by secure servers.
</div>
</li>
<li>
<button
class="usa-accordion-button"
aria-expanded="false"
aria-controls="a7">
I received a letter offering to <strong>sell</strong> me identify theft protection. Do you recommend this service?
</button>
<div id="a7" class="usa-accordion-content" markdown="1">
Yes. The TSP mailed out letters to all affected participants offering them free credit monitoring service for one year as an additional safeguard against identity theft. The ID TheftSmart™ service is administered through Kroll, Inc., a risk consulting company.

No. The TSP has hired Kroll, Inc. to provide **free** credit monitoring services through its ID TheftSmart™ service to affected TSP participants. The TSP is not selling any services or recommending that any participant purchase any services from any company.
</div>
</li>
<li>
<button
class="usa-accordion-button"
aria-expanded="false"
aria-controls="a8">
Is tsp.gov safe to use?
</button>
<div id="a8" class="usa-accordion-content" markdown="1">
Yes. There is no indication that the TSP network itself was subjected to unauthorized access. Rather, it was a Serco computer that was subject to a cyber attack.
</li>
</ul>
