---
permalink: /agency-service-reps/announcements/2013-12-16/
---

### TSP Guidance for the 2013 Government Shutdown

**General Rule for Pay Period 22:**  
If an employee is eligible to receive full pay for pay period 22, regardless of furlough, civilian payroll offices should submit all Thrift Savings Plan (TSP) contributions using the applicable Current Payment Record(s). If the payroll office is unable to process TSP contributions for the full pay period 22, follow the guidelines for pay period 21 outlined below.

**Retroactive Contributions Associated With Pay Period 21:**  
Civilian payroll offices should use the following guidance when submitting TSP contributions for retroactive pay associated with pay period 21. Contributions must be submitted for each individual affected pay date, using the applicable Late Payment Record(s):

- Civilian Late Payment Record — 46;
- Roth Late Payment Record — 42;
- Catch-up Contributions — Late Payment Record - 88; and/or
- Roth Catch-up Contributions — Late Payment Record - 84.

The "as of" date must be completed to show the pay date for which the contributions should have been made.<-

**Breakage:**  
If the retroactive contribution(s) and/or Loan payment(s) are processed within 30 days of the original pay date, breakage will not be calculated. Similar to current contributions, these contributions will be posted to a participant's account based upon the participant's contribution allocation and relevant share price(s) on the posting date, 5 CFR § 1605.15(c).

**Special Situations:**  
Many agencies, because of the shutdown, will have at least one divided pay period. For example, several payroll offices have paid many of their employees for the first 5½ days of pay period 21, and the remaining 4½ days will be part of the retroactive pay. In this situation, if an employee's election for pay period 21 was a whole dollar amount and his or her TSP contributions were submitted with pay received during the first 5½ days, the payroll office must ensure that the attributable agency contributions (Agency Automatic (1%) and Agency Matching Contributions) for the 4½ days of retroactive pay are also submitted to the TSP.

In a situation when the whole dollar amount elected was greater than the resulting pay after all mandatory deductions for both the first 5½ days of pay period 21 and again for the 4½ days of retroactive pay, no TSP employee contributions would have been submitted. In this case the agency must give the employee the opportunity to make up the TSP contribution for pay period 21 in accordance with 5 CFR § 1605.11(c).

If the employee election was a whole percentage of basic pay, the agency payroll office should have submitted TSP contributions for the first 5½ days of pay period 21 using the elected percentage of basic pay, and must submit TSP contributions again using the elected percentage of basic pay for the retroactive 4½ days.

**Makeup Contributions Not Associated With The 2013 Government Shutdown:**  
(i.e. Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994): For example, a uniformed service member was Absent - Uniformed Service for pay period 16 for 2012. He or she is currently doing make up employee contributions to his or her federal civilian TSP account. For makeup contributions that were not submitted due to the 2013 government shutdown, two separate payment records must be submitted. The first must be a late payment record for the makeup contribution with the "as of" date on which the makeup contribution should have been submitted during the 2013 government shutdown. The second must be a late or current payment record with the original "as of" date for the attributable agency contributions (pay period 16 for 2012). This is to ensure that breakage is not paid on employee makeup contributions retroactive to the original attributable pay date (pay period 16 for 2012).

**Loan Payments:**  
When submitting TSP loan payments for the retroactive pay associated with pay period 21, each loan payment must be submitted for each individual effected pay date with the corresponding "as of" date indicated on the Loan Payment Record - L6.
