---
title: December 4, 2018
permalink: /agency-service-reps/announcements/2018-12-04/
---
The TSP has made a temporary change to the financial hardship withdrawal rules for participants affected by Hurricanes Florence or Michael: As of December 4, 2018, we will treat any Financial Hardship In-Service Withdrawal Request as a qualifying hardship and will waive the rule prohibiting employee contributions for 6 months after taking a hardship withdrawal provided one of the following is true:

1. The participant’s residence or place of employment is located in a covered disaster area and has incurred a loss as a result of Hurricanes Florence or Michael.
OR<br>
2. The participant’s hardship withdrawal will be used to assist an eligible family member who lives or works in a covered disaster area and who has incurred a loss as a result of Hurricanes Florence or Michael.

**IN ADDITION**, the participant must also meet **all** of the following requirements:

- The participant must be actively employed with the federal government.
- The participant must complete Form TSP-76, _Financial Hardship In-Service Withdrawal Request_. This form can be requested by calling the toll-free ThriftLine at 1-877-968-3778
- The participant must check the “Personal Casualty Loss” box as the reason for requesting financial hardship.
- The participant must write “Hurricane Florence” or “Hurricane Michael” at the top of page 1 above the name of the form.
- The participant request must be **received in our office** by March 5, 2019 **and**, in compliance with IRS guidelines, the distribution must occur before March 15, 2019. Any Financial Hardship In-Service Withdrawal Request forms received after March 5, 2019 will be processed as a standard hardship withdrawal, and the participant’s TSP contributions will automatically stop for 6 months.

**If the participant wants to stop TSP contributions**, he or she must complete Form [TSP-1]({{ site.baseurl }}/forms/tsp-1.pdf) file or use the applicable automated system.

This rule change is not retroactive and all other Form TSP-76 rules apply. Participants may only receive one hardship withdrawal under this change.
