---
bulletin_number: 14-1
title: Thrift Savings Plan training courses
bulletin_date: January 8, 2014
permalink: /bulletins/14-1/
redirect-from:
  - /PDF/bulletins/14-1.pdf
agency: true
service: false
bulletin_chapter:
  - 12, Resources
bulletin_topic:
  - Resources
supersedes:
  - TSP Bulletin 13-1, Thrift Savings Plan Training Courses, dated January 9, 2013
---

Under the provisions of Title 5 U.S.C. § 8350, Federal employees who are designated by their agencies to furnish information on retirement benefits are required to complete related training on an annual basis. In order to help our agency/service partners satisfy this requirement, the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (FRTIB) offers Thrift Savings Plan (TSP) training courses throughout the year.

<ol class="Roman">
<li markdown="1">
**Courses:**
<ul>
<li>Overview of the Thrift Savings Plan</li>
<li>TSP Investments: Options and Operations</li>
<li>TSP Withdrawal Program</li>
<li>TSP Payroll Operations</li>
<li>TSP Error Correction</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li markdown="1">
**Eligibility**

Attendance is open to Federal employees responsible for administrating the TSP and,
with prior approval, personnel representing non-profit or academic institutions with an
interest in the TSP. Contract personnel who are providing TSP-related services to
Federal agencies may also attend with the express written consent of their Contracting
Officer Representative (COR).
</li>

<li markdown="1">
**Cost**

The courses and course materials are free for the individuals and entities eligible to
attend. Employing agencies must pay any associated transportation and per diem costs
incurred by their attendees.
</li>

<li markdown="1">
**Location**

The courses are normally conducted at the FRTIB offices in Washington, D.C.
Attendees must make their own arrangements for travel and lodging, but we can provide
information on local hotels upon request.
Agencies located outside the Washington, D.C. area may request that any of these
courses be taught on-site at their location, subject to instructor availability. Please call
(202) 942-1450 for more information.
</li>

<li markdown="1">
**Course requirements**

Individuals wishing to register for _TSP Investments or TSP Withdrawal Program_ must have
completed _Overview of the Thrift Savings Plan_ within the last three years. Individuals wishing
to register for _TSP Error Correction_ must have completed either _TSP Payroll Operations_ or
_Overview of the Thrift Savings Plan_ within the last five years.

The schedule of 2014 training sessions is at attachment 1. Attachments 2 – 7 describe
the courses in greater detail. Attachment 8 is the training registration form for
government employees. Attachment 9 is the training registration form for nongovernmental employees. The completed form(s) can be mailed or faxed to:

Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board  
Office of Communications and Education  
77 K Street, NE  
Washington, D.C. 20002  
Fax Number: (202) 942-1451  

Courses may occasionally be cancelled due to low registration. Registrations will be
confirmed approximately 30 days prior to the course date for each course. In the event
of a cancellation we will contact registered individuals and provide an opportunity to
reschedule.
</li>
</ol>
