---
title: January 18, 2019
permalink: /agency-service-reps/announcements/2019-01-18/
---
**Government Shutdown: TSP Contributions and Loan Payments** &#8211; The following provides preliminary guidance based on the information currently available. We will update our announcements as we receive new information.

_Contributions and loan payments_. Legislation has passed that awards back pay to furloughed employees once the shutdown is over. Note, agencies will need to submit the missed TSP contributions and loan payments on separate payment records for each missed pay period and not include all on one payment record. We will announce soon the correct payroll record to submit these contributions.

_Contributions and breakage_. Under the existing regulations (5 CFR section 1605.13(b)), TSP contributions resulting from back pay are subject to breakage. Breakage is the loss incurred or the gain realized on late and makeup contributions. However, agencies will only be subject to breakage if the payroll file is posted 31 or more days after the “as of” date for the missed contributions. Due to the expected volume of agency submissions, it may take us 2-5 business days to process the files once we receive them.

_Loans and breakage_. Be aware agencies may be liable for breakage on loan payments that are posted 31 or more days after the “as of” date.

_Loans_. At this time, agencies **should not submit Form TSP-41**, _Notification to TSP of Nonpay Status_. Should this change we will update our announcements. Participants who have outstanding loans and miss one or two payments will not be immediately affected if payments were up to date when the furlough began. We identify loans that are behind by more than 2.5 payments at the end of each quarter. The next time we will identify participants whose loans are at least 2.5 payments behind is scheduled for the end of March 2019. At that time, those affected will be notified and will have until the end of June 2019 to make up missed payments.

As more information is available, we will provide additional guidance on how agencies should submit payroll files to avoid errors to participant contributions and to ensure that participants with loans are not negatively affected.
