---
permalink: /agency-service-reps/announcements/2017-05-15/
---

[Form TSP-3]({{ site.baseurl }}/forms/tsp-3.pdf){:.pdf}, Designation of Beneficiary, has been revised, and the 05/2017 version is available for download from the TSP website in the Forms & Publications section. Agencies that maintain an inventory of TSP forms should destroy or recycle previous editions of the form. Agencies that make forms available electronically should take down earlier editions. The revisions to Form TSP-3 are as follows:

1. Only one witness signature is required. The same witness must sign and date all pages of the form including all copies made for additional primary and contingent beneficiaries.
2. The form now allows for up to 8 primary beneficiaries. Page 1 of the form now allows for up to 3 primary beneficiaries. Page 2 of the form provides space for an additional 5 beneficiaries. Copies of a blank page 2, “Primary Beneficiaries,” can be made if the participant wishes to designate more than 8 primary beneficiaries.
3. Page 3 of the form now allows for up to 4 contingent beneficiaries. Copies of a blank page 3, “Contingent Beneficiaries,” can be made if the participant wishes to designate more than 4 contingent beneficiaries.
4. TSP has made the address fields for the primary and contingent beneficiaries free-form for ease of completing the form.
5. The new form emphasizes that participants who would like their TSP accounts to be distributed according to the statutory order of precedence should not complete the TSP-3.
