---
bulletin_number: 19-10
title: Consolidated List of Obsolete, Replacement, and Combined TSP Forms and New Online Tools
bulletin_date: September 15, 2019
permalink: /bulletins/19-10/
agency: true
service: true
bulletin_chapter:
  - 2, General Information
bulletin_topic:
  - General information
supersedes:
  - TSP Bulletins 12-19 and 12-U-16, Consolidated List of Obsolete, Replacement, and Combined TSP Forms, dated August 7, 2012.
redirect-from:
  - /PDF/bulletins/19-10.html
---

<h1>Consolidated List of Obsolete, Replacement, and Combined TSP Forms and New Online Tools</h1></section>

<p>The purpose of this bulletin is to notify agencies/services that the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (FRTIB) has created new forms and online tools and declared prior versions of old forms obsolete as a result of the changes to the TSP withdrawal options associated with the TSP Modernization Act of 2017. These changes take effect on September 15, 2019.</p>
<p>This bulletin provides a consolidated list of obsolete forms, replacement forms and online tools, and combined forms that were affected by these changes to the withdrawals program. Obsolete forms listed below with a date prior to September 2019 will no longer be processed. Any copies of those forms should be immediately discarded (recycled), and agencies/services that provide links to electronic versions of those forms should disable those links.</p>
<p>This bulletin supersedes TSP Bulletins 12-19 and 12-U-16, Consolidated List of Obsolete, Replacement, and Combined TSP Forms, dated August 7, 2012.</p>
<p>The FRTIB has updated and created the following forms and online tools:</p>
<table class="tableRegular">
<thead>
<tr><th colspan="2">
<h3>Obsolete Form</h3>
</th><th colspan="2">
<h3>New Form/Online Tool</h3>
</th></tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td colspan="2">TSP-25, <i>Automatic Enrollment Refund Request</i> (all prior versions)</td>
<td colspan="2" style="text-align: left;">TSP-25, <i>Automatic Enrollment Refund Request</i> (9/2019)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td colspan="2" style="text-align: left;">TSP-60, <i>Request for a Transfer Into the TSP</i> (all prior versions)</td>
<td colspan="2" style="text-align: left;">TSP-60, <i>Request for a Transfer Into the TSP</i> (9/2019)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td colspan="2" style="text-align: left;">TSP-60-R, <i>Request for a Roth Transfer Into the TSP</i> (all prior versions)</td>
<td colspan="2" style="text-align: left;">TSP-60-R, <i>Request for a Roth Transfer Into the TSP</i> (9/2019)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td colspan="2" style="text-align: left;">TSP-75, <i>Age-Based In-Service Withdrawal Request</i> (all prior versions)</td>
<td colspan="2">
<div style="text-align: left;">TSP-75, <i>Age-Based In-Service “59 ½” Withdrawal Request</i> (9/2019) – <span style="color: blue;"><b>online tool</b></span></div>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td colspan="2" style="text-align: left;">TSP-76, <i>Financial Hardship In-Service Withdrawal Request</i> (all prior versions)</td>
<td colspan="2">
<div style="text-align: left;">TSP-76, <i>Financial Hardship In-Service Withdrawal Request</i> (9/2019) – <span style="color: blue;"><b>online tool</b></span></div>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td colspan="2" style="text-align: left;">TSP-70, <i>Request for Full Withdrawal </i>&nbsp;(all prior versions)</td>
<td colspan="2" rowspan="4">TSP-99, <i>Withdrawal Request for Separated and Beneficiary Participants </i>(9/2019) – <span style="color: blue;"><b>online tool</b></span></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td colspan="2" style="text-align: left;">TSP-77, <i>Request for Partial Withdrawal When Separated </i>&nbsp;(all prior versions)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td colspan="2" style="text-align: left;">TSP-79, <i>Change From Monthly Payments to Final Payment</i> (all prior versions)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td colspan="2" style="text-align: left;">TSP-90, <i>Withdrawal Request for Beneficiary Participants </i>&nbsp;(all prior versions)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td colspan="2" style="text-align: left;">TSP-73, <i>Change in Monthly Payment Amount </i>&nbsp;(all prior versions)</td>
<td colspan="2" rowspan="2">TSP-95, <i>Changes to Installment Payments </i>(9/2019) – <span style="color: blue;"><b>online tool</b></span></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td colspan="2" style="text-align: left;">
<p>TSP-78, <i>Monthly Payments Maintenance&nbsp;</i>(all prior versions)</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td colspan="2" style="text-align: left;">TSP-70-A, <i>Late Request for Full Withdrawal</i> (all prior versions)</td>
<td colspan="2">TSP-94, <i>Request to Restore an Abandoned Account</i> (9/2019)</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<div style="text-align: left;"><strong><br>Process for Requesting a Withdrawal Through the TSP’s Online Tools</strong></div>
<p>Participants who would like to request a withdrawal from their TSP account should use the online tools on the TSP website (tsp.gov). To access the tools, participants must log into My Account and click on “Withdrawals and Changes to Installment Payments” and click on the tool that is associated with the withdrawal he or she would like to request. The online tool will guide the participant through the request by prompting the participant to answer questions. Based on those answers, the online tool will generate a web form, which will be a summary of the request with the participant’s provided information. Depending on the circumstances, the request may be completed entirely online. If signatures or additional information is required, the participant will need to print the form, gather the necessary signatures, have the form notarized, and then send it to the TSP. <strong>Note:</strong> The pages included in the web-generated form will be variable, depending on what the TSP requires in a given case. If a participant alters any of the pre-printed information on the form, the form will not be processed.</p>

<!-- CONTENT END -->
