---
title: July 23, 2019
permalink: /agency-service-reps/announcements/2019-07-23/
---
The TSP recently released [Bulletin 19-5]({{ site.baseurl }}/bulletins/19-5/), _**Introduction of the Spillover Method for Catch-Up Contributions to the Thrift Savings Plan**_. Beginning with the first pay period of calendar year 2021, the TSP plans to switch to the “spillover” method for catch-up contributions for all active participants turning age 50 or older (civilian and uniformed services). This new approach will simplify the catch-up process:

- Participants turning age 50 and older will no longer need to make a separate catch-up election. Once they reach the elective deferral limit (EDL), their regular contributions will automatically spill over toward the catch-up contribution limit.
- Payroll offices will no longer need to send catch-up contributions on separate payroll records. For participants turning 50 or older, contributions toward the EDL and the catch-up limit will use the same record. This will not pose any issues for tax reporting as the two are already combined on participant W-2s.
- For eligible members of the Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS) and the Blended Retirement System (BRS), contributions “spilling over” toward the catch-up limit will be matched up to the 5% of basic pay to which participants are currently entitled. In other words, spillover will help prevent people from missing out on what they’re already eligible to receive.

In addition to making it significantly easier for participants to make catch-up contributions, spillover will simplify some payroll processes, such as streamlining payroll records, reducing the burden of tracking how close catch-up-eligible participants are to the EDL, and eliminating some errors.

**Bulletin 19-5** provides additional details about the program so that agency and service payroll offices, HR personnel, and electronic payroll systems can begin preparing for the transition.
